---
author:
- Denny Britz
categories: note
draft: false
lastmod: 2020-07-17 08:53:30-04:00
tags:
- management
- finance
- freelancing
- reinforcement-learning
- business
title: Building AI Trading Systems
links:
- https://dennybritz.com/blog/ai-trading/
---

Website: [Building AI Trading Systems](https://dennybritz.com/blog/ai-trading/)

Follow up from [[learning_to_trade_with_RL]] explaining why RL
is a good candidate for trading.

The **efficient market hypothesis** is a load of crap! Fails in the real world
because the world is messy and people are emotional.

**The market does not exist.** It's an emergent property of many agents acting in
an environment trying to maximize their own objective.

## A trader's mindset: it's all relative {#a-trader-s-mindset-it-s-all-relative}

Doesn't matter what source of data you use or how long it takes you as long as
it's better than your competitors'.

Widely adopted technologies are commodities to reduce costs.
But trading is relative so **each commoditized technology you can specialize and
build yourself is an opportunity** to beat the competition.

By storing data in an efficient binary format you can save serialization time,
leading to faster iteration during development, and faster predictions in
production. By creating custom integrations with exchanges instead of using
off-the-shelf APIs you may be able to use specific order types that are not
available to others, or gain an informational advantage by processing
exchange-specific information. And so on. Building highly-specialized
non-generic systems is what engineers hate. We love generalization and
abstraction. But specialization is often where your advantage in trading comes
from.

You don't need to start from scratch and implement your own programming language
to start trading. But you should be aware of the tradeoffs you are making when
adopting commoditized technologies. Make conscious decisions about it. Some of
the things above seem minor - but a large number of tiny advantages can add up
to a significant edge.

AI Models
: Pretty straightforward and everyone has access to them, unless
    you're working in a niche field.

Market
: Pick the right market(s) to trade in. The harder it is to get access
    to a market, both legally and technically, the more likely that you will find
    opportunities. Less liquid markets may be overlooked by sophisticated funds:
    **chance to be profitable because you're small**.

Data
: Be skeptical of popular APIs and open source software, same with data
    that everyone else uses.

Latencies
: not HFT but still matters.

Models
: better data > better models but better models can be a trading off
    with latency.

Execution
: live trading.

## Still use RL? {#still-use-rl}

Yes. See previous article for more info. Main point is to have a good simulator
for the agent to learn on.

I also believe that market simulations are a pretty good testbed for Reinforcement Learning algorithms. They have a few properties that many of today's techniques struggle with:

- Sparse positive feedback. With random exploration and naive rewards, you are
    quite unlikely to discover good policies.
- Requires generalization to future dates. Generalization is often overlooked in
    RL where researchers "test on the training set"
- With a good simulator, environments can provide a lot of stochasticity in the
    form of from latencies, jitter, API issues, slippage, etc.
- Nonstationarity. The market data distribution changes over time, and the agent
    must learn to deal with it.
- A low signal to noise ratio in the observations.

## Optimize for Iteration Speed {#optimize-for-iteration-speed}

Most inefficiencies are fleeting as other agents will adapt to your strategies.
How fleeting? It depends. Depending on where and how you are trading, they could
last milliseconds, seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, or months. \*The way to
be consistently profitable is to become consistently good at identifying
fleeting opportunities.\* This is basically meta-learning.

Optimize the speed of your outer loop when training models. The faster you can
iterate on discovering new strategies and adapting your models and
infrastructure, the better. Build your infrastructure around this. Automate data
visualization so that you can look at them easily when you get unexpected
results.

## You can't make money when the market goes down {#you-can-t-make-money-when-the-market-goes-down}

Lol!

[learning_to_trade_with_RL]: learning_to_trade_with_RL.md "Learning to Trade with Reinforcement Learning"

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[learning_to_trade_with_RL]: learning_to_trade_with_RL.md "Learning to Trade with Reinforcement Learning"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"