---
author:
- Vasken Dermardiros
categories: website
draft: false
lastmod: 2020-12-25 11:35:21-05:00
slug: google_digital_buildings_ontology
tags:
- mapping
title: Google Digital Buildings Ontology
links:
- https://github.com/google/digitalbuildings
---

[[building_mapping]]

<https://github.com/google/digitalbuildings>

[How Google Is Managing Its Smart Buildings Using Cloud IoT and AI (Cloud Next '19)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zz6jkLYkzSQ)

Google has it's own smart building ontology based on Haystack and Bricks but add
a stronger vertical to it including spatial information too.

Honestly though, it seems more of a "scratch their own itch" than something
really revolutionary. Some parts might be useful but nothing crazy here.

## Introduction (from GitHub) {#introduction--from-github}

The Digital Buildings project is an open-source, Apache-licensed effort to
create a uniform schema and toolset for representing structured information
about buildings and building-installed equipment. A version of the Digital
Buildings ontology and toolset is currently being used by Google to manage
buildings in its portfolio.

The Digital Buildings project originated from the need to manage a very large,
heterogeneous building portfolio in a scalable way. The project aims to enable
management applications/analyses that are trivially portable between buildings.
This goal is achieved through a combination of semantically-expressive abstract
modelling, an easy-to-use configuration language, and robust validation tooling.
Digital Buildings work has been inspired by Project Haystack and BrickSchema,
and maintains cross-compatibility and/or convergence as a long-term objective.

In creating the Digital Buildings project, we have considered the following:

- Human Readability
- Machine readability and interpretation
- Composable functionality
- Dimensional Analysis
- Correctness validation
- Cross compatibility

## Digital Buildings Ontology {#digital-buildings-ontology}

<https://github.com/google/digitalbuildings/blob/master/ontology/docs/ontology.md>

The Digital Buildings project is concerned with modeling the characteristics and
telemetry of **entities**, and their relationships with each other. An entity is
any instance of a "thing" in the model. The ontology is concerned with
"describing the thing".

The ontology describes entities using **entity types**. An entity type indicates
both a place within the ontology's composable taxonomy and a set of semantically
defined data **fields** that are expected for that entity. Fields are composed of
structured groupings of **subfields** that provide them with specific meaning.

Relationships between entities are defined by directed, named **connections**.

Other components of the model stack, such as translations and links are
discussed in [onboarding](https://github.com/google/digitalbuildings/blob/master/ontology/docs/building%5Fconfig.md).

Subfields ~ Haystack tags

Fields
The format of a field is a follows:

(<Agg>\_)?(<descr>\_)\*(<component>\_)?(<meas. descr>\_)?(<meas>\_)?<PointType>(\_<num> )\*[^13]

Ex: max\_discharge\_air\_temperature\_setpoint

### Building Config.md {#building-config-dot-md}

<https://github.com/google/digitalbuildings/blob/master/ontology/docs/building%5Fconfig.md>

Relational tags:

FEEDS
: relationships between chained equipment in HVAC or power systems, as
    well as between terminal units and Zones.

CONTROLS
: relationships between switch groups and fixtures, and between
    switches and switch groups.

CONTAINS
: relationships between Zones or Switch Groups and rooms.

CONTAINS
: relationships between all entities and floors (or more specific
    space, if known).

CONTAINS
: relationships between Buildings and floors, and floors and rooms.

[building_mapping]: building_mapping.md "Building Mapping"

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[building_mapping]: building_mapping.md "Building Mapping"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"