---
author: Anastasiia Bitkina
categories: website
tags:
- management
- financial
- startup
title: Top 6 SaaS Pricing Models and How to Choose the Right One
links:
- https://onix-systems.com/blog/top-6-saas-pricing-models-and-how-to-choose-the-right-one
---

Make it obvious to show how you compare to competition and how you offer better value.

# 1. Freemium
People can use the platform for free, but with a limited number of features. If users are needing more functionality, they will have to pay to increase their capabilities.

+ Personal, Edu --> free
+ Pro
+ Team
+ Enterprise

Like Fusion360, Unity, Matlab, etc.

## Advantages
+ It's easier to develop a large user base since you offer a free product
+ Great opportunity for free beta testing 
+ Since you have a large customer base, you can collect essential data and feedback to create effective paid plans
+ Users are more willing to use free products, which can reduce marketing costs

## Disadvantages
+ Low conversions rates
+ Users can try your product and leave quickly knowing they haven't paid anything
+ High cost for users support
+ No incoming revenue

# 2. Feature-based pricing
If you need certain functionality, you need to buy that feature. Most people would be happy with the basics.

## Advantages
+ Users are more willing to purchase services as they clearly see what they are paying for
+ This can be a good incentive for users to buy more advanced packages
+ An opportunity to target multiple buyer personas

## Disadvantages
+ It can be hard to determine what set of functions should be in a certain package

# 3. Flat-rate pricing
Easiest solution. Can offer a 30-day free trial.

## Advantages
+ This model is simple, transparent and it's easy to sell
+ Since you have one package, it's easy to promote

## Disadvantages
+ No flexibility for users with different needs
+ It's hard to get maximum income from your varied user base
+ If the price doesn't fit users, they will simply leave, no compromises

# 4. Per active user pricing
This enterprise SaaS software pricing model allows companies to purchase software for widespread use and not be concerned that they will spend too much since they only pay for active users.

## Advantages
+ Since you know how many active users you have, you can more easily predict your income
+ You can attract large companies easier because this model can be a  cost-effective option for them 

## Disadvantages
+ It's hard to attract small businesses
+ Users may decline your services or abandon your software more quickly

# 5. Tiered pricing model
This SaaS billing model allows consumers with varying requirements and budgets to decide the most suitable set of services for them. Similar to the feature-based one except that many features are just grouped.

## Advantages
+ You can easily attract an audience with different demands
+ Users are more loyal as they have several options to choose from

## Disadvantages
+ It can take you a lot of time and effort to analyze the market and design packages for each target audience
+ Variety of packages can be confusing for users

# 6. Per-storage pricing model
Dropbox.

## Advantages
+ You can allow people to become acquainted with your software making them more willing to purchase additional space

## Disadvantages
+ Be careful not to offer too much free space as it can rob you of profitable users
+ It can be costly to support non-revenue producing users

# Takeaway
+ What is your target market? What is its spending power?
+ Do you understand how your competitor’s price and charge their users?
+ How are you different from the others?
+ Does your product offer enough value to successfully sell it?
+ What is your customer lifetime value to customer acquisition (LTV/CAC) ratio?
+ Is your pricing model easy to understand?
+ What are the fixed and variable business costs you need to cover?

1. Define your market segment :: target audience --> is this something they want? will they pay for it?
2. Find a balance between value and revenue :: "`Price is what you pay, value is what you get.` — Warren Buffet" --> focus on a value-based model rather than a cost-based one.
3. Know your customer lifetime value to customer acquisition ratio (LTV/CAC), also see [[saas_metrics.md]] 
4. Keep your pricing simple :: Make it easy for people to understand what value they get, what features they can use, and what payment for your services are.
5. Mix different models to get the most out of your SaaS
6. Measure your results
7. Implement, test, iterate

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[saas_metrics.md]: saas_metrics.md "20 Key SaaS Metrics for Startups to Track"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"