---
author: Denis Sheremetov
categories: website
tags:
- management
- financial
- startup
title: 20 Key SaaS Metrics for Startups to Track
links:
- https://onix-systems.com/blog/20-startup-metrics-that-matter-for-smarter-faster-saas-business-growth
---

# SaaS Metrics that Help Measure User Engagement
1. Traffic-related SaaS metrics :: how many people visiting; new people; who came from where, did we pay for those? Report _unique visitors_
2. Activation rate
3. Lead-to-customer conversion rates :: subscribe to blog --> paying customer; filled a form to download an ebook, sales-qualified leads --> people who tried the free demo and want more
4. Active users :: daily active users (DAU), weekly (WAU), monthly (MAU) --> DAU/MAU == how strick your product is -> is it growing? shrinking?
5. Session-related SaaS metrics :: how long do users stay logged in? what are they looking at?
6. Feature-related SaaS metrics

# Customer Retention Metrics for SaaS Companies
7. Customer retention rate (CRR) :: proportion of customers who stayed with the company after a specific period. Calculate monthly, quarterly, etc.
8. Customer churn rate :: opposite of CRR --> proportion of customers who are leaving after a specific period. _Keep this as LOW as possible_

# User Satisfaction Metrics for SaaS Startups
9. Feedback as a metric
10. Customer satisfaction score (CSAT) --> see if they're happy, fix the issues before renewal!
11. Net promoter score (NPS) :: It measures the number of promoters – customers who are likely to recommend your product or company to others -- vs detractors -- customers likely to disuade others. Users are typically asked to estimate this likelihood from 0 to 10 and then classified according to the points they have given. NPS = % of promoters - % of detractors.
12. Viral coefficient :: Word-of-mouth marketing -> when existing customers assist in acquiring new ones.
13. SaaS Customer Support Metrics & KPIs :: number of support tickets ~= level of users' discontent. A good practice is to tag tickets by types: bugs, feature requests, questions, complaints, suggestions, etc. There’s even a stronger link between the average resolution time and customer satisfaction and retention.

# SaaS Financial Metrics for SaaS Companies
14. Monthly recurring revenue (MRR) and related SaaS KPIs :: collected revenue without one-shot fees. Add these 3 MRRs to get your net MRR.
  + New MRR is revenue gained only from new customers in a given month
  + Add-on MRR (or expansion MRR) – revenue from existing customers that buy additional product features, upgrade the account, add new users, etc.
  + Churned MRR – the monthly revenue lost from cancellations and downgrades
15. Average revenue per account (ARPA) :: calculated monthly; A simple way to do it is to calculate the total MRR you have at the end of a period and divide it by the number of active accounts at that time. A good practice is to measure ARPA for new and existing customers separately to understand how your ARPA is evolving.
16. Revenue churn :: Revenue churn or MRR churn rate measures the amount of revenue you lose due to customers leaving your service or downgrading subscriptions each month, as a percentage of overall revenue.
17. Customer acquisition cost (CAC) :: CAC is sometimes called the startup killer: many have failed to find a way to acquire customers at a low enough cost. CAC tells you exactly how much you need to spend to attract and acquire a single new paying customer. Divide your total sales and marketing expenditure in a given period by the number of new customers acquired within that period.
18. Months to recover CAC :: payback period
19. Customer lifetime value (CLV, LTV, or CLTV) :: For the CAC metric to be truly meaningful, you need to cross-reference it with your customer lifetime value (CLV). It represents the average amount of revenue generated by a customer over the lifetime of their account. CLV == ARPA / the customer churn rate.
20. CLV-to-CAC ratio :: A SaaS company can stay profitable in the long run if its CLV is _at least three times larger_ than its CAC.

# Takeaway
Select up to 10 metrics that matter and track those.

+ focus primarily on those that reflect user needs, user happiness, and engagement
+ align the user, product, and business goals
+ accentuate SaaS KPIs that impact long-term growth in revenue and avoid vanity metrics

MRR can be your SaaS company’s guiding star and its primary benchmark for progress. When it comes to measuring your business efficiency, we recommend tracking your gross margin-adjusted CAC payback. As for predictability, the key metrics to monitor are the customer renewal rate and the CLV-to-CAC ratio.

Three guidelines can help you judge quickly whether your SaaS business is viable:

+ You should recover your CAC in less than 12 months.
+ At least 30% of your revenue should come from upselling and cross-selling to existing customers in order to offset inevitable churn.
+ Your CLV should be about three times your CAC. It is a good way to figure out whether you will be profitable in the long run.

Use analytics tools to monitor.
