---
author: Vasken Dermardiros
categories: website
tags:
- organizing
title: Taking Better Notes
---

Zettlekasten and PARA methods

# Read about the Zettlekasten method
<https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/NfdHG6oHBJ8Qxc26s/the-zettelkasten-method-1>

Method is about keeping smaller notes and having a hierarchy about them, ideas
worth exploring will have a deeper tree. Best to balance going deep vs going
wide; as usual... Author prefers using actual cards, but will be cumbersome to
take everywhere, and you can't sync onto multiple platforms.

Still need to figure out how to blend TODOs, journal, notes on papers and
overall implementation work -> need to show as a table as well for
time-tracking and agenda view.

Will have to flip the approach and present it as the bullet points I already do
except the points are cards.

# PARA method
<https://fortelabs.co/para/>

PARA stands for Projects-Areas-Resources-Archives and follows the following
definitions:

#+DOWNLOADED: screenshot @ 2020-02-25 10:29:36
![Categories](../attachments/Taking_better_notes/2020-02-25_10-29-36_screenshot.png)

A *project* is “a series of tasks linked to a goal, with a deadline.”

Examples include: Complete app mockup; Develop project plan; Execute business
development campaign; Write blog post; Finalize product specifications; Attend
conference

An area of *responsibility* is “a sphere of activity with a standard to be maintained over time.”

Examples include: Health; Finances, Professional Development; Travel; Hobbies;
Friends; Apartment; Car; Productivity; Direct reports; Product Development;
Writing

A *resource* is “a topic or theme of ongoing interest.”

Examples include: habit formation; project management; transhumanism; coffee;
music; gardening; online marketing; SEO; interior design; architecture;
note-taking

*Archives* include “inactive items from the other three categories.”

Examples include: projects that have been completed or become inactive; areas
that you are no longer committed to maintaining; resources that you are no
longer interested in


#+DOWNLOADED: screenshot @ 2020-02-25 10:33:17
![Projects](../attachments/Taking_better_notes/2020-02-25_10-33-17_screenshot.png)

The big bubble is the area of responsibility; the curvy rectangle is the project
(has a goal with deadline) and the task within it. Area of responsibility has a
*standard* to maintain and *continues indefinitely*.

Number of responsibility should be limited to 4. 4 is the magic number!